let us write two strings in a row column vice
manner as we did in the longest common subsequence problem
in the longest common subsequence problem
If two characters are equal we will take the previous
longest result array of I minus one J minus one
and add one to it
If they are not equal we will carry the maximum
result for further calculation
Because an LCS the characters can appear in relative order
that is the common sequence may appear anywhere in the string but
in the case of a common sub string the characters
should appear in continuous order
So as long as the characters are equal we will
increment value
Otherwise there is no need to carry the maximum result
throughout the problem like we did in LCS
So let's see how to solve this problem here
We can keep a variable to track the maximum sub
string length and whenever we find a new maximum length
we can update it
So first add zeros and first row and first column
Next we have D and A which are not equal
so add zero next is B and B which are
also not the same
So add zero here next
D X not same D Y not same d a
not same d B and D
C are also not the same
So add the 00 now go to the second row
We have A and A which are the same
When two characters are equal we need to add one
to the previously found longest common sub strings length which
we can find at array of i minus one J
minus one
So add one to the value present there and store
it here
So we will get zero plus one which is one
And since this is a new maximum we need to
update the result variable
So result equal to one
Now
Next we have a B A x A y which are
not equal
So add zero next is A A which are equal so
increment the value and we will get one
Next we have AB and AC which are not equal So
add zeros in the third row b a are
Not the same
Next b b are same so increment value and we
will get two since this is a new maximum we need
to update result variable then b x b y b
a are not the same
But next b B are equal
So increment the value and we will get two next
B C are not equal
So add zero now in fourth row only Last column
has the same character
So increment the value here and we will get two
plus 1 3
And this is a new maximum
So update result now add zeros in remaining columns now
in fifth row every pair of characters are different
So add zeros there
Now this value in result three is the length of
longest comment sub string here that is of ABC.